teleop & joints/axes notes

this document references the drawing at http://jmkasunich.com/pics/emc2-motion-dataflow.pdf

Off mode:

  this mode is active when the machine is estopped, etc
  motion is not controlled, but the various planners need to be preloaded with the current position
  SW2 is down, so the single axis planner preload value matches the current feedback
  If there are no forward kins, this feedback is useless, and SW2 must be in the middle position - preload with "home" coords
  the single-axis planners are disabled - they copy their preload values to their outputs, and ignore their inputs
  SW1 is down, so the inverse kins will know the current position
  SW4 is down, so the single joint planner preload value matches the current feedback
  the single-joint planners are disabled - they copy their preload values to their outputs, and ignore their inputs
  SW3 is down, so the backlash and screw comp code will know the current position


Coordinated mode:

  this is the mode used when running a program or doing MDI
  motion is controlled by the coord mode planner, which gets commands from the motion queue
  SW1 is up, to take the axis position commands from the traj mode planner
  SW2 is up, so the single axis planner preload value matches the current command
  the single-axis planners are disabled - they copy their preload values to their outputs, and ignore their inputs
  SW3 is up, to take the joint position commands from the kinematics
  SW4 is up, so the single joint planner preload value matches the current command
  the single joint planners are disabled - they copy their preload values to their outputs, and ignore their inputs


Joint mode:

  this is the mode used when jogging joints
  motion is controlled by the single joint planners,
  which get commands from GUI joint jogs, wheel joint jogs, and/or the homing state machine
  SW2 is down, so the single axis planner preload value matches the current feedback (since command is coming from the joint level)
  If there are no forward kins, this feedback is useless, and SW2 must be in the middle position - preload with "home" coords
  the single-axis planners are disabled - they copy their preload values to their outputs, and ignore their inputs
  SW1 is a down, so the inverse kins will know the current position
  the single joint planners are active, moving their outputs to match their inputs while obeying joint constraints
  SW3 is down, to take the joint position commands from the single joint planners
  SW4 is no-care, since the single joint planners are active, we don't need to worry about preloading them


Axis mode (aka teleop):

  this mode is used when jogging in world coords
  motion is controlled by the single axis planners, which get commands from GUI axis jogs and wheel axis jogs
  the single axis planners are active, moving their outputs to match their inputs while obeying joint constraints <---- don't know how to do this
  SW1 is down, to take the axis position commands from the single axis planners
  SW2 is no-care, since the single axis planners are active, we don't need to worry about preloading them
  SW3 is up, to take the joint position commands from the kinematics
  SW4 is up, so the single joint planner preload value matches the current command
  the single joint planners are disabled - they copy their preload values to their outputs, and ignore their inputs


Mode transition rules:

  If you have identity kins, you can switch to teleop or coord mode at any time, even if you haven't homed
  If you have forward kins, you can switch to teleop or coord mode at any time after you have homed all joints
    (even if you have moved a joint since then)
  if you don't have forward kins, you can only switch to teleop or coord mode when all joints are _at_ their home position


the main problem is how to obey constraints in joint space when the motion is being
generated in axis space (by either the coord mode planner or the single-axis planners)

random thoughts on constraints

At any servo period, the joint level code will have "most recent joint pos cmd from kins" 
and "previous joint pos cmd from kins", which can be turned into "joint vel cmd".
Given the joint vel limit, we can compute "percent of joint vel that is being used.
Also, given joint accel limit, we can compute "time to stop the joint".
We could then select the highest "percent of vel being used" from all the joints,
and the longest "time to stop the joint", and do "something" back at the axis level
with that info.  But what?

Thinking only about the single axis planners for now...

I don't really see any reason to have axis vel and accel limits in the ini file.  The
machine's mechanical limits are related to the joints, not the axes.  So the axes should
simply limiit themselves to whatever will keep the joints happy.

If the limits for the single axis planners aren't in the ini file, we need to derive
them somehow.  That is the root problem.

Suppose we are already moving at some velocity Vx in the single axis X planner.  That
results in movements of one or more joints, and thus we have a value for "worst % of
joint vel being used" and "worst time to stop a joint".  We could set the X axis planner's
accel limit to ( Vx / worst_stop_time ).  This blows up when worst_stop_time approaches
zero (which is the case at zero speed).  It also results in a zero accel limit for any
axis that isn't already moving, which means it could never start moving...

So maybe this is stupid, but let's think the rest of it thru anyway...  the above is
the accel limit, what about velocity limit.  If X is moving at Vx, and the worst
joint is using 55% of that joint's vel limit, then the X velocity limit should be 
( Vx / 0.55 ).  Again, it blows up when "percent of limit being used" is zero, and
any axis that isn't already being moved will have a limit of zero.


